We're gonna talk about authentication and
it's gonna be the first time we
interact with the database as well.
So we don't just want
anyone using our API.
Like yes calls is cool because it
doesn't think about cores that like it
allows you to prevent different IP
addresses or different requests that
have specific headers or different
type of methods from interacting.
But it doesn't tell you who the person is,
what role they might have,
if their account is in good standing
like it doesn't tell you that.
It's just saying if this request is
even able to make a request that's what
calls is.
It's typically called a pre-flight check.
It's like the browser sends off a API
calls to your server ahead of time.
Let's say you wanna make a post
request to Stripe's API.
The browser will go to
Stripe's API first and be like,
is this client allowed to
even talk to you Stripe?
And then Stripe will respond back,
what a chorus option saying like,
these are the things that I allow.
When the browser says like yeah this
client fits that then the browser
will send off your request so
they actually makes two requests
when it does that in the browser.
Okay that isn't the same
as authentication,
authentication is like okay now that
your request actually got accepted and
you can go forward, who are you again
like that's authentication, who are you?
Are you allowed?
What do you allowed to do?
What is your information what is your ID?
So, we want to add authentication,
because our database is multi tenant,
what is multi tenant mean?
It just means that we don't have
one database for every user,
there's one database and it's got
every user is on that database and
every users information
is on that database.
So we have to be very careful that
we don't let some users see some
other users data.
So how do we do that?
How do we make sure that user one
only sees user one's data and
not user two's data?
Because they're in the same database.
So it's like, well, we needed a way to
identify what users make an API call,
so we can scope all their queries and
rights, to the user.
How do we do that?
Well, that's where
authentication comes in.
We can, now identify and
authenticate someone, based off something.
So the pros are we're gonna do,
its called a JWT, or JSON Web Token or
some people pronounce it jot.
I'm never gonna say that,
I refuse to call it a jot.
It's a JWT, or
it's a JSON Web Token in my book.
But if you want to call it jot,
you can call it that.
What is a JSON Web Token?
Well, you don't need to
be a crypto expert, and
I'm not talking blockchain
crypto talking cryptography.
[LAUGH] You don't need to be
a cryptologist to understand
a JSON Web Token.
It's basically TLDR, take a JavaScript
object or whatever you want on it and
that JavaScript object,
given a secret, which is a string,
can deterministically be
converted to some random string.
And that string can be converted back to
the same object given the same secret.
It's almost like hashing but not quite I'm
not a scientist so don't quote me on it.
But I can deterministically always get
the same result to and from that string in
that object if I use the same secret and
that's what a JSON Web Token is.
The reason we do that is because we don't
have to store anything on a server.
The alternative would be something like
a session where you have to keep track of
who's logged in and your API right now,
which just eats up resources and
then you got to do session management and
I don't wanna do it.
JSON web token, the client stores the
token on their own client and then he's
got to sit with every single request
because the service is going to check it.
Every single request is like,
yeah, we got to check,
if you are the same person every time and
that's annoying, but
it's better than storing whether or
not you're logged in or not.
So it's a trade off,
we'll be using JSON Web Tokens.
So let's create some JSON Web Tokens.
First, we need to download some things.
So we're going to npm
install all of these goodies.
So npm install we go here and
do this here.
Npm install jsonwebtokens,
all lowercase plural bcrypt and dotenv.
If bcrypt doesn't install
on your computer cuz
sometimes it doesn't why don't mind
just I think it's jsonwebtoken,
sorry not tokens if bcrypt
doesn't install on your computer.
For some reason it like there's
issues with like, older Intel's or
newer in ones like there's sometimes
issues that that doesn't work.
There's an alternative that has the same
API that usually works let me know,
we can find it.
But yeah, install those jsonwebtoken,
singular, bcrypt and dotenv.
We're gonna create a new file a new folder
and a file we're gonna create a new folder
called modules and we're gonna make
a new file in there called auth.
So I'm gonna go inside of source
we're going to folder we'll call it
modules inside of modules I'm
gonna get a file called auth.ts.
So this is just kind of my approach I
typically create like a utils folder or
I don't always give it some random
name I've been using utils for
awhile I recently switched over
the modules cuz I like the icon.
So [LAUGH] yeah they're called
modules now, so, there you go.
But yeah, I like to put my auth stuff in
one file versus like having it sprinkled
all across the app.
Because they typically rely on each other,
like all things rely on each other anyway,
so I put them in one file,
even though they're like functional,
they do different things.
One might be a middleware,
one might be a handler,
one might be some utility function,
but they're all off.
So I'll put them in one file
that might not be your flow.
You might wanna put all middleware in
one file, all handlers in one file,
all whatever in one file.
I like to do I don't like to box myself
into one thing I just do what feels right
and from my experience, I hate having
ten files open to deal with all changes.
I just rather have one file open and
it's usually off that has all
those changes all the time.
Like for Jacob's computer, make sure
you turn off the auth and like okay,
then it's like, I just want this one file.
Like I don't feel like doing all this.
Okay, so
we're gonna do this stuff on one file.
So a couple things we're gonna do is first
we're gonna create a function to create
a JSON Web Token.
So let's do just that auth.js,
we're gonna import JSON,
I'm gonna call it jwt from JSON Web Token.
I gonna export const createJWT, and
remember JWT is basically
converting an object to a string.
So we need an object,
we want this object to
be something that is unique about a user.
So when we undo the string and
turn it back to an object, outcomes,
that unique thing about the user
that we can use to identify user.
So what is something unique about a user
that we can use to identify a user?
ID?
Yeah, it will be an ID and
also any other unique thing on
the user which will be a username.
So I'm gonna put a username and
an id in the JSON Web Token.
So later on when I get back to user,
once someone's trying to access
API I could be who are you?
You're user ID whatever,
you're user with the username whatever.
So whatever I put on a token needs to be
useful for me identifying them later.
Sometimes if you have role
based access Arbok or
something you would put the role of
the user in the JSON Web Token to so
you can quickly check to see if they have
the right role to do something right?
We don't have that so
we're not doing that.
But typically you want to keep the JWT
light the more that's up the more that's
on the payload the longer the string
gets so try to keep it light.
Cool create JWT it's gonna take a user and
then we're gonna say JWT or
we gonna say token=jwt.sign like that.
It's gonna take two arguments
is gonna take an object.
So the payload in this case
a ID with a user ID, and
then a user name, but
a user.username, like that.
And then a second argument is
a secret you cannot sign or
verify JWT without having
that sprinkled in secret.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna go
to our EMB file under our database we're
going to make JWT_SECRET, and you can put
whatever string you want, doesn't matter.
You can call it whatever you want,
I'm gonna put cookies,
I ate a bunch of cookies last night.
I ordered some insomnia cookies, they came
late, and then they sent me another one.
So I had 12 cookies and I ate them all.
So I'm not ashamed, I'm gonna put cookies
by default anything in the environment,
variable file does not get
loaded up into our environment.
We have to load it up
whenever our server starts.
The only reason Prisma was able to get
it because somewhere in their code,
they're doing just that.
They're looking in this file and
they're grabbing the database URL.
But JWT_SECRET will not be loaded up into
our code we have to do that that's why we
installed dotenv.
So if we go into index it's
gonna look like this so
we can just import dotenv star so
everything as
dotenv from dotenv And then dotenv.config.
This is what looks at the dotenv file,
gets every single environment
variable in there,
loads them up into your environment and
now you can access them on process dotenv.
And we're the reason we're doing this an
index file because this is the entry point
to our server.
So we want these end to be
loaded up immediately so
the rest of the app can actually use them.
So you want to do it in the entry file to
your server which in our case is index.ts.
You don't want to load this up on like
some handler file somewhere because if
anything else that got loaded before
the handler file executed needed dotenv it
would never have it.
It would say that doesn't exist,
you like, yeah, it is,
it's there because I logged in
my handler file I did see it?
Well, yeah,
because that loaded after the dotenv file.
So let's put this in an entry file.
Okay, so we got that.
Now, we should be able
to say our secret is
going to be
processed.env.JWT_SECRET like so.
Here we go, fix this, I don't want my
prettier not working, it's all good.
Cool, so this is going to give us
back a string token is now a string.
And then we could just return that token,
like that.
Yeah, question.
>> Which is preferable for
storing JWT tokens local storage,
or secure HTTPS server only cookies?
>> The preferred method for storing
a JWT on a client site for a browser.
I've tried like all many different places
what I've landed on eventually was just
storing it in a cookie.
We're not gonna be storing
it in a cookie here, but
because you need like interaction
from the front end and whatnot, but
I think starting out with cookies Ideal
because cookies are automatically sent up.
So it just saves you time on
the front end cuz, I mean,
I guess you don't have to write
the code at once on the front end.
But I guess it gets kind of tedious like
having to grab local storage every single
time you wanna make a request,
to grab your JSONWeb Token and
attach it to the header.
Or like come up with some interceptor
on the front end that does it for
you automatically.
Whereas it knows it's a cookie, it gets
all cookies gets sent automatically to
the server, so then the server
will just check for cookies.
But on the server side,
I actually prefer the token to
be on the authorization header.
I think that's more appropriate and
it makes more sense.
So although from a client perspective,
I like having it in the cookies, I don't
have to write it from a server perspective
I prefer to have it in the header.
So I guess it depends on what side
of the project I'm working on.
But today, we're on the server side so
it's gonna an authorization header.
Which means it'll probably
be in local stores.